Release announcement for 1.9.1 (#9085)
istio/istio.io: content/en/news/releases/1.9.x/announcing-1.9.1/index.md

---
title: Announcing Istio 1.9.1
linktitle: 1.9.1
subtitle: Patch Release
description: Istio 1.9.1 patch release.

> publishdate: 2020-12-08

Reviewer: ```suggestion
publishdate: 2021-03-01
```

release: 1.9.1
aliases:
    - /news/announcing-1.9.1
---

This release fixes the security vulnerability described in [our March 1st, 2021 news post](/news/security/istio-security-2021-001)
as well as bug fixes to improve robustness.

This release note describes what’s different between Istio 1.9.0 and Istio 1.9.1.

{{< warning >}}

> Due to the nature of the fixed security issue, at the time of publication qualification tests are still pending. These

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Due to the nature of the fixed security issue, at the time of publication, qualification tests are still pending. These
```

Reviewer: I inserted an alternative suggestion.  I don't care about the wording, but I think we should be more specific about what has and has not finished.  So I think we should somehow say that the only shortcut we are taking is only completing 18 out of 48 hours of stress testing.  All the other tests are finished.

> Due to the nature of the fixed security issue, at the time of publication qualification tests are still pending. These

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At the time of release publication, we have only completed 18 our of our typical 48 hours of stress testing.   Given the zero day nature of the vulnerability and our experience with these stress tests, we believe it's safe to release now. These
```

Author: Did a manual commit

tests will be concluded on Wednesday March 3, 2021. At such time we will either remove this warning or post known issues
seen with this release. If you are not comfortable adopting Istio 1.9.1 before Wednesday, please read through the

> [security bulletin](/news/security/istio-security-2021-001) and follow the steps to mitigate specified in it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[security bulletin](/news/security/istio-security-2021-001) and follow the steps to mitigate within it.
```

{{< /warning >}}

{{< relnote >}}

## Security update

> A 0 day was fixed in Envoy that affects only Istio 1.9.0 on Friday February 26th, 2021. This 0 day can be exploited only

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
A zero-day security vulnerability was fixed in the version of Envoy shipped with Istio 1.9.0.  This vulnerability was fixed on Friday February 26th, 2021. 1.9.0 is the only version of Istio that includes the vulnerable version of Envoy. This vulnerability can only be exploited
```

on misconfigured systems.

## Changes

- **Improved** sidecar injection to automatically specify the `kubectl.kubernetes.io/default-logs-container`. This ensures `kubectl logs`
  defaults to reading the application container's logs, rather than requiring explicitly setting the container.
  ([Issue #26764](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/26764))

- **Improved** the sidecar injector to better utilize pod labels to determine if injection is required. This is not enabled
  by default in this release, but can be tested using `--set values.sidecarInjectorWebhook.useLegacySelectors=false`.  ([Issue #30013](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/30013))

> - **Updated** prometheus metrics to include source_cluster and destination_cluster labels by default for all scenarios. Previously, this was only enabled for multi-cluster scenarios.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- **Updated** Prometheus metrics to include source_cluster and destination_cluster labels by default for all scenarios. Previously, this was only enabled for multi-cluster scenarios.
```

  ([Issue #30036](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/30036))

- **Updated** default access log to include `RESPONSE_CODE_DETAILS` and `CONNECTION_TERMINATION_DETAILS` for proxy version >= 1.9.
  ([Issue #27903](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/27903))

- **Updated** Kiali addon to the latest version v1.29.
  ([Issue #30438](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/30438))

> - **Added**  `enableIstioConfigCRDs` to `base` to allow user specify whether the istio crds will be installed.  ([Issue #28346](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/28346))

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Added**  `enableIstioConfigCRDs` to `base` to allow users to specify whether the Istio crds will be installed.  ([Issue #28346](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/28346))
```

> - **Added** support for DestinationRule inheritance for mesh/namespace level rules. Enable feature with `PILOT_ENABLE_DESTINATION_RULE_INHERITANCE` environment variable.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Added** support for DestinationRule inheritance for mesh/namespace level rules. Enable feature with the `PILOT_ENABLE_DESTINATION_RULE_INHERITANCE` environment variable.
```

  ([Issue #29525](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/29525))

- **Added** support for applications that bind to their pod IP address, rather than wildcard or localhost address, through the `Sidecar` API.
  ([Issue #28178](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/28178))

> - **Added** flag to enable capture of dns traffic to the istio-iptables script.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- **Added** flag to enable capture of DNS traffic to the `istio-iptables` script.
```

  ([Issue #29908](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/29908))

- **Added** canonical service tags to Envoy-generated trace spans.
  ([Issue #28801](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/28801))

> - **Fixed** an issue causing the timeout header `x-envoy-upstream-rq-timeout-ms` was not honoured.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Fixed** an issue causing the timeout header `x-envoy-upstream-rq-timeout-ms` to not be honoured.
```

  ([Issue #30885](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/30885))

- **Fixed** an issue where access log service causes Istio proxy to reject configuration.
  ([Issue #30939](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/30939))

> - **Fixed** an issue causing an alternative Envoy binary to be included in the docker image. The binaries are functionally equivalent.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- **Fixed** an issue causing an alternative Envoy binary to be included in the Docker image. The binaries are functionally equivalent.
```

  ([Issue #31038](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/31038))

- **Fixed** an issue where the TLSv2 version was enforced only on HTTP ports. This option is now applied to all ports.

> - **Fixed** an issue where Wasm plugin configuration update will cause request to fail.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Fixed** an issue where Wasm plugin configuration update will cause requests to fail.
```

---
title: Announcing Istio 1.9.1
linktitle: 1.9.1
subtitle: Patch Release
description: Istio 1.9.1 patch release.
publishdate: 2021-03-01
release: 1.9.1
aliases:
    - /news/announcing-1.9.1
---

This release fixes the security vulnerability described in [our March 1st, 2021 news post](/news/security/istio-security-2021-001)
as well as bug fixes to improve robustness.

This release note describes what’s different between Istio 1.9.0 and Istio 1.9.1.

{{< warning >}}
At the time of release publication, we have only completed 18 out of our typical 48 hours of stress testing. Given the

> 0-day nature of the vulnerability and our experience with these stress tests, we believe it's safe to release now. These

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
zero-day nature of the vulnerability and our experience with these stress tests, we believe it's safe to release now. These
```

missed one sorry

[security bulletin](/news/security/istio-security-2021-001) and follow the mitigation steps specified in it.
{{< /warning >}}

{{< relnote >}}

## Security update

A zero-day security vulnerability was fixed in the version of Envoy shipped with Istio 1.9.0.  This vulnerability was fixed on Friday February 26th, 2021. 1.9.0 is the only version of Istio that includes the vulnerable version of Envoy. This vulnerability can only be exploited
on misconfigured systems.

## Changes

- **Improved** sidecar injection to automatically specify the `kubectl.kubernetes.io/default-logs-container`. This ensures `kubectl logs`
  defaults to reading the application container's logs, rather than requiring explicitly setting the container.
  ([Issue #26764](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/26764))

- **Improved** the sidecar injector to better utilize pod labels to determine if injection is required. This is not enabled
  by default in this release, but can be tested using `--set values.sidecarInjectorWebhook.useLegacySelectors=false`.  ([Issue #30013](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/30013))

> - **Updated** Prometheus metrics to include source_cluster and destination_cluster labels by default for all scenarios. Previously, this was only enabled for multi-cluster scenarios.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Updated** Prometheus metrics to include `source_cluster` and `destination_cluster` labels by default for all scenarios. Previously, this was only enabled for multi-cluster scenarios.
```

  ([Issue #30036](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/30036))

- **Updated** default access log to include `RESPONSE_CODE_DETAILS` and `CONNECTION_TERMINATION_DETAILS` for proxy version >= 1.9.
  ([Issue #27903](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/27903))

- **Updated** Kiali addon to the latest version v1.29.
  ([Issue #30438](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/30438))

> - **Added**  `enableIstioConfigCRDs` to `base` to allow users to specify whether the Istio crds will be installed.  ([Issue #28346](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/28346))

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Added**  `enableIstioConfigCRDs` to `base` to allow users to specify whether the Istio CRDs will be installed.  ([Issue #28346](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/28346))
```

> - **Added** support for DestinationRule inheritance for mesh/namespace level rules. Enable feature with the `PILOT_ENABLE_DESTINATION_RULE_INHERITANCE` environment variable.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Added** support for `DestinationRule` inheritance for mesh/namespace level rules. Enable feature with the `PILOT_ENABLE_DESTINATION_RULE_INHERITANCE` environment variable.
```

  ([Issue #29525](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/29525))

- **Added** support for applications that bind to their pod IP address, rather than wildcard or localhost address, through the `Sidecar` API.
  ([Issue #28178](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/28178))

- **Added** flag to enable capture of DNS traffic to the `istio-iptables` script.
  ([Issue #29908](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/29908))

- **Added** canonical service tags to Envoy-generated trace spans.
  ([Issue #28801](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/28801))

- **Fixed** an issue causing the timeout header `x-envoy-upstream-rq-timeout-ms` to not be honored.
  ([Issue #30885](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/30885))

- **Fixed** an issue where access log service causes Istio proxy to reject configuration.
  ([Issue #30939](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/30939))

- **Fixed** an issue causing an alternative Envoy binary to be included in the Docker image. The binaries are functionally equivalent.
  ([Issue #31038](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/31038))

> - **Fixed** an issue where the TLSv2 version was enforced only on HTTP ports. This option is now applied to all ports.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Fixed** an issue where the `TLSv2` version was enforced only on HTTP ports. This option is now applied to all ports.
```
